# PEDRA
PEDRA, Parallel Electrical Dielectric Response Analysis, has an open source code, runs under IGOR PRO 9.0, a single expandable ECM circuit, an user assisted iterative curve fit, simple single screen interface, handles multiple data files, converts electrical circuit parameters to physical dielectric parameters and powerful graphics capability.

PEDRA is designed to fit impedance data using a single expandable dielectric equivalent circuit model, which can function as either a dependent response cascading Randles model or an independent response parallel Debye model, rather than employing the approach used by traditional EIS software, where the user must choose a model.  PEDRA is presently able to handle four responses.  Additionally, two types of series elements may be included: a parallel RC, capacitance, element to model external line capacitance, which is commonly associated with high impedance, low-current applications, and a parallel RL (inductance) element, generally used for low impedance, high-current situations.

The sequence for fitting data is also different: 1) data is loaded, 2) From the Log(Frequency) graph choose the number of responses, 3) estimate parameters for each response by clicking on graph, 4) set parameter constraints, 5) auto fit as first trial, 6) iterative user fit to achieve convergence, 7) validate fit from parameter values and associated error, overall error, position on Log(Frequency) of responses and residuals, 8) Option to add to an onboard 'Record Summary' report, 9) Analyze multiple data sets the comprise an experiment, 10) Overlay results on customizable (using IGOR PRO) report formats in SpecView (a gaussian graphical representation of response parameters), Bode Imag/Real, Bode Phase/Mag and Nyquist Plots, and 11) output fit parameters, data and fit in spreadsheet form.

PEDRA can directly convert electrical circuit parameters (R, C, n), using the user supplied 'Effective' area and Relative Dielectric value, to physical dielectric properties (R, d, Fd). Dielectric properties include R (resistance path), d (dielectric thickness), and Fd (fractional or fractal distribution of individual contributions to the overall response).  The ladder, Fd, is a result of EIS being a macro-technique (large, ascribed area) sensitive to micro-scale or nano-scale features of the system.

Thus, PEDRA, rather than attempting to conform the data to a pre-conceived physical model, instead determines how many and what types (i.e. by the values of the parameters) of responses can be determined by the EIS technique itself. This capability is expected to reduce the variation of interpretation of EIS results. Lastly, PEDRA is the result of over 25 years experience with the technique, from inception (late '80s), initial attempts with traditional methods (mid '90s), PEDRA initial development (late '90s early 2020s), retirement 2012 to present.
